{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17400\viewh10920\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The late fifties and early sixties was a musical era ushered in by the jazz and blues of the preceding decades as well as the emerging genres of pop and rock.  As is common in art, much of the music created was inspired by or a response to a previous genre.  Much of rock can be described as originating from a mixture of blues inspiration and jazz rebellion, however, in many instances, a so-called blues inspiration has been a direct co-option of African American music.  Everyone from Elvis Presley to Led Zeppelin found themselves releasing music originally written by black artists without proper attribution.  This behavior was only promoted by the production companies as they were run mostly by white Americans who ripped much of the value from the musician's hands. \
\
Outside of music, the African American struggle with race in the U.S. proved difficult as segregation lived strong through forces such as the Jim Crow laws.  The culture of black America felt the oppression continuing to weigh it down.  The musicians saw that it was time they took a stand and set themselves apart. Through the 1960s, this reaction became known as the genre of Motown.  Despite the strong hold of white supremacy in and out of the music industry, the African American culture gained influence as well as economic and musical recognition through its prosperity in the Motown genre. Still, the success did not come easily.  Motown started from the bottom and had to work its way into popular culture. \
\
The genre of Motown pulled together the soul of gospel, the catchiness of pop, and the raw talent of blues and jazz to become a new, popular type of music closely associated with the African American culture.  However, since the major Motown musicians were not strictly associated with the established genres, the record companies did not recognize them as equal to other musicians.  The musical union didn't even offer equal pay for Motown musicians until 1965, several years into the development of the genre (C). Nonetheless, the movement pushed onwards.  With musical experts like James Jamerson backing melodies similarly addictive to the pervasive ditties found in pop, the new voice of black america had its momentum growing.  \
\
The main obstacles holding Motown back were the competing artists as well as the nation's perception of black culture.  Art was an always had been a highly competitive environment requiring perpetual innovation to ensure success.  This innovation emerged from James Brown's album 
\i Live from Apollo
\i0  in 1962.  The current popular songs involved a heavy amount of post-recording production to add in effects such as vocal overlays and synthetic sounds, few of which could be reproduced in live performances.  Motown had it all, live and recorded.  The powerful voices, the mastered instruments, and the evocative style radiated equally through the speakers when the listener sat at home as well as through the audience during live performances (K).  This set the genre apart from the reigning rock and pop, but the image of the artists themselves had to change for the American public to accept the rising dominance of black artists.  \
\
This image makeover began with finishing and deportment classes to aid the public image of the artists in all contexts from interviews to concerts.  Maxine Powell became well known in the Motown community for providing these type of services once she was brought in to aid in the development of The Supremes in 1964 (L ). Beyond fine tuning general behavior, the Motown stars were also taught choreography to add to the overall effect of the performance. This final touch to the concerts made the Motown experience unlike that of any other music out there at the time, catapulting the black culture into a national spotlight.  This allowed the genre to be held in the hearts of millions of African Americans as a reconciliation of the inner conflict between being a proud American and a proud black individual without losing either identity (A).  This type of rallying theme brought the Motown community together very quickly making it a family so that the producer was described as "a father, an older brother, an uncle, a coach, [or] a teacher" (31 Early).  Between this newfound success, newfound identity, and newfound family, African Americans never felt "more optimistic about the future than in 1960 when things were changing \'85 it was quite possible, at last, to think of entering the world of whites without going through the back door of the culture. \'93 (B 65).  Few people expected the profound effects this new music would have on the industry and the culture.  \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340

\f1\fs30 \cf0 Changed the face of music + for black industry
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 	- Gordy bringing color to the industry
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 	- Gordy\'92s method of producing a lot and hoping for the big hits to pay for fails (like todays VC)
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 	- HDH wrote hella songs industriously
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 	- performance aspect became huge
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 	- live music aspect
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 	- (D)
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 	- Big performance and gospel show of music in supremes
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 	- (H)
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}